i'm gonna read and reply to a comment
sent to me on patreon from theo theo is
not just a fan or a supporter he's
really a super fan sometimes i quote
myself and i can't find the quote and he
knows what video i'm quoting like
where's the video where i said this
about this topic or something
so theo knows my material really well
one of the reasons for that is that he
has been doing some kind of archive work
i'd say he's been looking around a lot
at what's been going on in the vegan
movement and he's been kind of piecing
together links to different articles by
different vegans and different websites
and different videos and so on my best
girl melissa is sitting here just off
camera next to me she can chime at any
time anyway so theo writes quote i don't
know the timeline of your journey into
vegan activism too well i know you've
had an affinity for charity ever since
you felt betrayed by parents
indoctrinating you into communist
ideology
uh sometime around when you were
studying buddhism doing humanitarian aid
et cetera so i'll read the rest of this
paragraph this is an interesting point
so he's he's saying that i've had an
affinity for charity charity work and
this is somehow linked to growing up
with parents who were communists and my
own rejection of communism um so i had a
longtime friend and friend of me called
phillip who you know some stories about
babe
and philip grew up with uh christian
parents and he felt that he was
indoctrinated into a form of
christianity they despised and they were
not and i don't know if anyone could be
called a normal christian but they were
not quite normal christians it has to be
said they liked going to
nigeria not just to do charity work but
because they liked the really hard-line
extreme form of angle kind of process in
christianity they got out there
they didn't find christianity harsh
enough or biblical enough or whatever
you want to say and i think probably
homophobia and so on played a role in
that so that was where they felt
comfortable it was as being white
missionaries in
uh in that part of africa
anyway
um but i said to philip before when he
was complaining with his own parents i
said you know possibly if we had
switched families at birth you know if
he had been raised in my family and i
wouldn't raise his family ironically
it's quite possible i would have
accepted my parents ideology just
because the charity aspect meant so much
to me i think that was really almost an
instinctive thing you know from
childhood forward for me you know like i
can't say that was something i ever
thought about he asked me why does
charity matter to me so much
i i think for many people it is i don't
know if that's for 10 of the population
or 50 of the population but i mean the
basic concept of doing the best you can
trying to help others let me give you an
example how did you feel babe when you
were a kid
and you saw someone who was mentally
[ __ ] saw someone or interacted with
saw someone on the street like not in
the news you know what i mean when i was
a child i felt very strongly when i met
interact with mentally [ __ ] people
including people like born with down
syndrome
severe forms of retardation not not some
minor thing i really wish that could
help them i felt this terrible yearning
to want to try to help them and the
powerlessness of knowing i couldn't and
also knowing that you know in terms of
your parents and teachers you you're
told by your parents and teachers to
keep your distance and not without
reason you know you as a little kid it
is probably dangerous for you to
interact with or play with
mentally disabled people so
you know that
for me i think i had that out the gate
had to when i came out the box it came
that [ __ ] from
from day one you know i don't think that
was something taught to me
no the other so look i mean other kids
also if they had parents who were
communists would have responded to and
questioned other aspects of the ideology
not just the the charity aspect
but
from my perspective as a child very
clearly
the validity of communism really stood
or fell with the same claims to validity
the catholic church often uses so
remember there was a really crappy
mainstream movie the da vinci code okay
so i saw like five minutes of that movie
while washing dishes and change the
channel honestly honestly i'll tell you
the truth if i watched that movie i had
no shame but i remember that was on tv
and some circumstance like that and in
at least the movie
version the main character confronts
this representation sorry this
representative of the catholic church
and he sort of says you know your church
is built on lies
and the representative of the catholic
church he's a cardinal or a deacon or
something he's some reasonably ranky
person he says back that his church
washes the feet of the poor and feeds
and houses the homeless and this is
their claim to legitimacy now i remember
i just laughed at that at the time it
was just ridiculous
when you donate money to the catholic
church do you want to know what
percentage of it goes to feeding the
poor and what percentage of it goes to
housing you know clerical scholars and
priests and nuns in some kind of luxury
and you know i'm not hating you just
can't kid yourself what do you what are
you paying for you paying for the the
pope to live in luxury or you're paying
for the poor to live in poverty if you
wanted a charity it was the vote of the
poor it wouldn't look anything like the
catholic church right and it's designed
or folk should have you but that was
always striking to me and then only when
i was a i don't know a teenager but late
in my teenage years when i was in
university i read that book by carl
popper so the particular book by carl
popper has a tough title the the title
is the poverty of historicism a bunch of
his other books have catchy titles just
not that one and there for the first
time i saw someone openly talking about
the extent to which
catholicism and communism really had
things in common you know in terms of
their appeal and that that resonated
with me too i could see you know this is
this is this is a really meaningful
critique of both frankly
anyway something that i as i've said to
you recently was kind of a family secret
also was the extent to which my father
was drawn to christianity and for maybe
10 years of his life really believed in
christianity i always thought that was
very telling that the same people were
seduced by communist extremism not
moderate communism or seduced by
christianity and um i don't think i've
ever told you this story but i met one
professor in china
and she didn't admit it to me she
admitted to my ex-wife and then i heard
from her that she actually had a period
where she had lost faith in communism
and she briefly went over to what she
considered formally converting to but
she started going to church
she was being seduced by basically
american style christianity and she said
directly because it made the same kind
of promises it had the same kind of
appeal for her you know so she wasn't
sleepwalking that it wasn't like
somebody else's analysis
so there is an interesting kind of
parallel there but again i started this
by saying i'll do humility that kind of
charitable instinct i think was so
important to me that it's quite possible
if i'd been raised by christian parents
even crazy christian parents even
specifically
my friend phillips crazy christian
parents that i would have
found so much value in the charity side
of what they were doing that
i i don't know i don't know what i would
have done with it you know i don't know
what direction i would take that in
but you know the claims to charity and
the part of communism are are pretty
paper-thin
um i've never heard anyone really try to
justify for example the american war in
vietnam as charity like to really
justify like why are you bombing vietnam
as charity i've never heard someone
really try to justify the american war
in afghanistan this charity was another
parallel thing and the communists had
the same problem the communists also
invaded afghanistan they invaded
conquered afghanistan people now forget
they had their own history so that they
overlap in that specific example but
that's only one example but to look at
any of those episodes
in the history of communism in russia or
in china
um it's very hard to give a charitable
reading to them so that really is like a
pun or a play on words but uh you know
hey i'm not uh i'm not joking around for
no reason here so there's an interesting
point um
theo is opening with here so again
coming back to theo's letter to me he
says quote i know you've had an affinity
for charity ever since you felt betrayed
by your parents and doctoring you into a
communist ideology and i kind of see
that the other way around because the
charitable stink was so strong in me
there was this tendency to judge
communism against
charity it's the social function of
charity are you trying to help other
people or not
and keep it all the way real remember my
father had real kind of rage and sorrow
my mom that whole generation from the
vietnam war specifically the vietnam war
showed it to tana mongeau tandem joe's
father also totally ruined by the
vietnam war i mean a lot of people were
in that generation and you know for my
parents and for a lot of people their
age their response to the vietnam war
had nothing to do with charity it was
real hatred and rage and so it was a
real sense they wanted to destroy the
united states they wanted an angry fist
you know and i didn't see the world i
mean
i think they were wrong to see it that
way also i mean i think they're both
incorrect and morally wrong to see it
that way but you have to realize a lot
of those people got involved with
left-wing politics and they didn't have
any charitable motives and it wasn't at
all like the way i felt as a child
seeing images of poor and starving
people on television i mean as a child
that never saw that in real life but in
real life you'd see maybe homeless
people on the street see people living
in poverty in different situations but
you see when i was a kid babe this may
be true for you too there were a lot of
images especially of ethiopia you know
ethiopia was the
kind of
sterling example of poverty maybe for
your generation into haiti so you would
have been pretty young with the
earthquake and haiti happened or
something you know this kind of thing
i'm just giving you this yeah when i was
in high school uh my choir did a tribute
concert like raise money yeah
but anyway the image of poverty and
starvation and then the question of what
do we do from here and i mean i guess we
can get into this in a separate video
but for all of us i mean that's
ultimately what it comes down to is the
number of hours in a day and how you can
make any of these aspirations you know
to save the world
compatible with the challenge of keeping
a roof over your head or providing a
decent standard of living to your own
kids if you have kids or any of these
other things
i remember um so there's a saying in
buddhism this is in mahayana buddhism
but they say uh
it is in some moderately ancient texts
but not the real not the most ancient
text and buddhism where it says you know
uh practice the dharma as if your hat is
on fire you know as if you're wearing a
hat that's on fire you know a lot of
religions have that spirit of like
the world is gonna end so work really
hard and devote yourself to this or
whatever i mean veganism it's weird i
don't feel that the world is going to
end
i feel that the world is bad
and is getting worse
but i mean it's a horrible i mean it's
an absolutely horrible cosmology we live
with it's vegans
ethically and ecologically and um
you know i do still ask myself that
question every day you know how would
you live your life if you were trying to
save the world i have a daughter my
daughter's four years old i do
prioritize spending time with my
daughter i do burn the jet fuel to fly
from canada to france and
spend my 15 days with my daughter you
know and all these things
um but sure when we're looking at these
options it would be it would be a
wonderful delusion if i thought that
getting a phd in ecology could make any
difference in the world even on this
youtube channel
i don't think if i got a phd in ecology
would even help this youtube channel
in any way i don't think would help the
vegan world anyway if i got a phd in
ecology if i got a phd in ecology i
don't think there's anything i could do
that gary francione hasn't already done
or even the gary yourofsky hasn't
already done without having a phd in
ecology so both of us are people now
we're looking at more higher education
we were looking at we had a video on it
recently looking at whether or not we
should become lawyers go to law school
but then you look at that
and you contrast it to
you know going to get a degree in
culinary arts getting a degree in baking
getting a degree in pastries
working in a kitchen rolling out bread
and ask yourself what can really be a
platform for making that difference in
the world
anyway it's heavy so we were laughing
and joking around a lot before we we
came on camera but i mean that it really
is the the burden
i mean
you know gotta say it's the burden that
i've lived with all my life i really do
feel that way but veganism gave me a
coherent framework and a lens to
understand it and express it much better
than before because melissa was exactly
like me in this before i was vegan i
cared way more about never owning a car
and by the way i still never have owned
a car i still never have driven a car
all right and then after i was vegan you
see that kind of thing in this much much
more meaningful quantitative framework
you know and i remember like some of my
ex-girlfriends when i first got with
them they were really hyper about never
using a plastic bag
and i could i said to them do you want
me to show you the stats do you want me
to show you what percentage of the human
waste stream that's what people call it
the human waste stream is
reusable plastic bags do you want me to
show that in the difference between
using a reusable and disposable do you
want me to show that i can get you that
now and in some studies you know the
reusable plastic bags cause more garbage
than this
it's a really near thing it's like okay
and now do you want to look at the
difference between
you know
meat versus tofu
this kind of thing
i'm not saying veganism is the only
you know ecological or ethical cause but
veganism was both the ineluctable
conclusion of those questions and those
misgivings and it was also something
where once i switched into veganism
all those other questions you know made
more sense it it precisely in the
strictest sense the word perspective
it put all the other problems in
perspective you could see what was big
and what was in fact
small but close to you you know
in contrast to things that really were
huge
but perhaps you know
more remote
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
yes